what's up everybody super expand here
and today I'm going to show you how to
change your own oil in the 2015 Mustang
EcoBoost now this video is sponsored by
Pennzoil so huge thanks to them but this
is a video I wanted to do anyway for you
guys many of you requesting that I do an
oil change video so I want to make sure
I did for you and so I'm going to show
you the steps and the processes of how
to change your own oil now this is
something I've never done before I've
never changed my own oil believe it or
not you know I worked at car dealerships
for much of my life and so they've
always changed my oil for me but you
know it's easy for me to recommend
Pennzoil because I actually back
whenever I would buy my own oil and have
the mechanics change it for me I always
chose Pennzoil Platinum synthetic anyway
just because I tried a few other oils
and they didn't seem to make the car run
as well as the Pennzoil did I know
always just like the additives and I I
just like the product so I always use
Pennzoil so that's what I recommend of
course and that's what I'll be filling
up the Mustang with today so anyway I'm
going to show you all the steps involved
in changing your own oil now this is
specific for the 2015 Mustang EcoBoost
other 2015 Mustangs or other cars in
general will have very similar steps
just things be located in slightly
different places and so yeah but this
video will apply just about any car so
let's go ahead and get started alright
so the first thing you're going to want
to do is make sure you safely jack up
your car now I'll say that I'm not a
professional so do this all at your own
risk but definitely take precautions and
make sure you put your car up safely you
know so I have these Rhino ramps and you
know just you drive slowly up onto the
ramps and make sure the car secured put
it in gear have the ebrake on all that
stuff and so pop the hood here and
you'll see your dipstick is right there
and then the oil fill cap right there
very easy on the EcoBoost everything's
laid out really easily so you'll want to
take the oil cap off because that helps
the oil drain better and then put some
cardboard underneath the car this way
whenever you accidentally spill oil
which inevitably happens most of the
time you won't have to worry about
getting on the driveway and it also
prevents your back and getting scraped
up and you want to buy an oil catch pan
here
that has a little mesh there so the
drain plug doesn't fall into the thing
of oil and you also need a 15 millimeter
socket for the EcoBoost for the drain
plug and you know you can use a wrench
as well which is what I ended up using
but as you can see everything's way
about really easily there with the oil
filter and then the drain plug right
there at the bottom of the oil pan and
so there's my little wrench and I use
the Box side there so it gets a better
grip and I had a real struggle because I
had the dealership perform oil changes
previously and they must have really put
this stuff on tight because I was here
for a while trying to bust that bolt
free you can actually turn the car on
and warm it up a little bit then let it
cool off you know make sure everything
safely cooled off a little bit but
that'll help loosen it some people say I
just had to really tug on it you can put
a breaker bar or something else to help
loosen up but you know finally got it
loosened up and then you just want to
get it you know loosen up then you can
use your hands for the rest of it
because you're going to want to have
your oil pan there way to catch the bow
because it comes out fast and so first
time you'll definitely get a lot of oil
everywhere like I ended up doing but um
yeah so you just drain it all out here
and have some paper towels handy as well
because like I said it definitely gets
messy so there you go and I said shoots
waver other than I was expecting so and
as the flow decreases you also have to
keep adjusting it as well so that it
doesn't you know start getting
everywhere and it takes about fifteen to
thirty minutes is what they recommend to
let all the oil drain out so in the
meantime I was cleaning up my mess there
some paper towels and you know
continuing to move my oil pans that
didn't get oil places there and but yeah
it does take a while now I mean I even
let it go for more than thirty minutes
and it was still dripping a little bit
in the meantime you can check your oil
drain plug there make sure that the
threads are okay they're not stripped or
anything because you want to make sure
that's all good I see you have any leaks
you're also going to want to clean it
off and you're going to want to clean
the whole area very well so that
whenever you check for leaks later after
everything's done you'll be able to see
very clearly whether or not there is a
leak and it's also good just to keep
everything clean so you don't have any
oil get on any hot parts and start
burning off and
and you know having you wonder why
you're smelling oil alright there's a
close-up and it slowly just kept
dripping and it was doing this for a
while so I just cleaned it off as best
as possible after about 45 minutes of
its slowly dripping out there and then I
just threaded it back in and now you
don't want to over tighten this because
it can definitely screw up your oil pan
so just snug it up you know pretty good
and you know actually clean everything
up well and then we can move on to the
oil filter which like I said
everything's nice and easily laid out
but the oil filter was on so snug too I
don't know if they either use tools or
had super superhuman strength but I had
to end up buying one of those tools
there for my socket wrench to loosen it
up there and then you're going to want
to have your oil catch pan ready again
as well because this likes to you know
drip if you have an oil filter like the
Mustang where it's upside down and you
know if you have a B or Z or an FRS or a
WRX I know a lot of those have it
right-side up so you have to worry about
this but the oil will leak out so you
want to make sure that you know you let
all that drain out as well and then you
want to clean up the area again make
sure there's no oil on anything and then
you're going to want to use some of that
old oil to lubricate that rubber gasket
there on your new oil filter and so you
put the new one on there and it screws
right on now it's recommended that you
only put these on hand tight you don't
want to over tighten this because that
can also mess up the washer there the
you know gasket and provide an
inadequate seal so you just want to hand
tighten it I since I had the tool I did
snug it up a little bit but I did not go
overboard so just a little bit and make
sure you clean everything off again so
like I said it's easy to check for leaks
later
like I said Pennzoil Platinum synthetics
what I use here this is 5w30 that's what
this car takes I definitely check your
trim of the Mustang or your year or
whatever cars you have to make
sure that you're putting the right
viscosity because that's very important
so yeah 5w30 and so this car takes 5.7
courts and so this is a 5 quart jug and
I have a 1 quart jug so well we won't
put in all the little one corporal put
in all this and then put in most of that
so make sure to check the back of your
owner's manual all the specifications as
far as how much oil is required for your
car will be in there every car is
different also make sure you have a
funnel handy so that you don't get any
oil on the engine you definitely don't
want to spill any so be very careful
when you're filling it up and whatnot
and you definitely don't want to
overfill it
they have a handy little thing here so
you can see how much you pour it in put
in almost half putting some more here
so as you can see it's not all the way
up this is the top mark that's a low
mark it's in there pretty good but it's
not all the way up to the top we'll put
in a little bit more but you know we
won't put in the whole thing so it looks
a little more full now so I think we're
good there
we'll just run with that so we'll just
turn the car on and check for leaks
all right so make sure you put the oil
filler cap back on as well make sure
it's obviously on nice and snug checking
for leaks here underneath the car before
I start it up make sure everything's
good
all right so haven't started the car if
you have a one to check for leaks under
there first just to make sure
everything's tight everything's good so
we'll turn the car on and hopefully it
doesn't go kaboom
alright so after inspecting the topside
and underside of the car and not finding
any leaks we were all good to go and
finished up so huge think the Pennzoil
once again more information about their
oil can be found in the description
below and if you have any questions
about changing their own oil leave them
in the comments section below and I'll
be happy to answer thanks for watching
guys and I'll see you next time take
care